DEVX-1721: Different Replicator configuration types where destination is CCloud (#644)
confluentinc/examples: ccloud/docs/replicator-to-cloud-configuration-types.rst

.. _replicator-to-cloud-configurations:

|crep-full| to |ccloud| Configurations
======================================

> Whether you are migrating from on-prem to cloud or have a persistent "bridge to cloud" strategy, you can use |crep-full| to copy Kafka data to |ccloud|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether you are migrating from on-premises to cloud or have a persistent "bridge to cloud" strategy, you can use |crep-full| to copy |ak| data to |ccloud|.
```

Learn the different ways to configure |crep| and |kconnect-long|.

.. figure:: images/replicator-to-ccloud.png

===============
Concepts Review
===============

> Before diving into the different ways to configure |crep|, let's first reprise some basic concepts regarding |crep| and |kconnect-long|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before diving into the different ways to configure |crep|, first review some basic concepts regarding |crep| and |kconnect-long|.
```

> This will help you understand the logic for configuring |crep| because how the |kconnect-long| cluster is configured will affect how |crep| should be configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will help you understand the logic for configuring |crep| because the way that the |kconnect-long| cluster is configured dictates how |crep| should be configured.
```

> |crep| is a Kafka connector and runs on Connect workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|crep| is a |ak| connector and runs on |kconnect| workers.
```

> Even the :ref:`Replicator executable <replicator_executable>` has a bundled Connect worker inside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even the :ref:`Replicator executable <replicator_executable>` has a bundled |kconnect| worker inside.
```

> |crep| has an embedded consumer that reads data from the origin cluster, and the Connect worker has an embedded producer that copies that data to the destination cluster, which in this case is |ccloud|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|crep| has an embedded consumer that reads data from the origin cluster, and the |kconnect| worker has an embedded producer that copies that data to the destination cluster, which in this case is |ccloud|.
```

> To configure the proper connection information for |crep| to interact with the origin cluster, use the prefix ``src.``.

Reviewer 2: These rules apply when running in distributed mode, could be helpful to specify the differences in configuration if the user is deploying in executable mode.

Author: @skaundinya15 this is certainly open to discussion but just wanted to share the logic behind not showing Replicator executable and showing just distributed.

1. The examples are Docker-based and thus use the Replicator Docker image, so that is the distributed mode.
2. Showing both distributed mode version and executable version would pollute the docs page, which is already pretty long with these 4 config types

Perhaps in parallel, what if there were a separate docs page that guided users how to take a distributed config and convert it to executable?

Reviewer 2: That's a good point, a docs page on how to take a distributed config and converting it to an executable config is probably the best move here, I'll file a docs ticket for it.

> |crep| also has an admin client that it needs for interacting with the destination cluster, and it can be configured with the prefix ``dest.``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|crep| also has an admin client that it needs for interacting with the destination cluster, and this client can be configured with the prefix ``dest.``.
```

> A Connect worker also has an admin client for creating Kafka topics for its own management, ``offset.storage.topic``, ``config.storage.topic``, and ``status.storage.topic``, and these are in the Kafka cluster that backs the Connect worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A |kconnect| worker also has an admin client for creating |ak| topics for its own management, ``offset.storage.topic``, ``config.storage.topic``, and ``status.storage.topic``, and these are in the |ak| cluster that backs the |kconnect| worker.
```

> Connect's embedded producer can be configured directly on the Connect worker or overridden by any connector, including |crep|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |kconnect-long| embedded producer can be configured directly on the |kconnect| worker or overridden by any connector, including |crep|.
```

===================
Configuration Types
===================

> The first type is where |crep| runs on a self-managed Connect cluster that is backed to the destination |ccloud| cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first type is where |crep| runs on a self-managed |kconnect| cluster that is backed to the destination |ccloud| cluster.
```

> This allows |crep|, which is a source connector, to leverage the default behavior of the Connect worker's admin client and embedded producer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows |crep|, which is a source connector, to leverage the default behavior of the |kconnect| worker's admin client and embedded producer.
```

.. figure:: images/replicator-worker-destination.png

For this case where |crep| runs on a :ref:`connect-backed-destination`, there are two configuration examples:

- Example 1.1: :ref:`onprem-cloud-destination`
- Example 1.2: :ref:`cloud-cloud-destination`

> There are scenarios in which your self-managed Connect cluster may not be able to be backed to the destination |ccloud| cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are scenarios in which your self-managed |kconnect| cluster may not be able to be backed to the destination |ccloud| cluster.
```

For example, some highly secure clusters may block incoming network connections and only allow push connections, in which case an incoming connection from |crep| running on the destination cluster to the origin cluster would fail.

> In this case, you can have a Connect cluster backed to the origin cluster instead and push the replicated data to the destination cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, you can have a |kconnect| cluster backed to the origin cluster instead and push the replicated data to the destination cluster.
```

This second configuration type is more complex because there are overrides you will need to configure.

.. figure:: images/replicator-worker-origin.png

For this case where |crep| runs on a :ref:`connect-backed-origin`, there are two configuration examples:

- Example 2.1: :ref:`onprem-cloud-origin`
- Example 2.2: :ref:`cloud-cloud-origin`

.. _connect-backed-destination:

=====================================

> Connect Cluster Backed to Destination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|kconnect| Cluster Backed to Destination
```

=====================================

For this case where |crep| runs on a :ref:`connect-backed-destination`, there are two configuration examples:

- Example 1.1: :ref:`onprem-cloud-destination`
- Example 1.2: :ref:`cloud-cloud-destination`

.. _onprem-cloud-destination:

> On-prem to |ccloud| with Connect Backed to Destination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On-premises to |ccloud| with |kconnect| Backed to Destination
```

------------------------------------------------------

> In this example, |crep| copies data from an on-prem Kafka cluster to |ccloud|, and |crep| runs on a Connect cluster backed to the destination |ccloud| cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, |crep| copies data from an on-premises |ak| cluster to |ccloud|, and |crep| runs on a |kconnect| cluster backed to the destination |ccloud| cluster.
```

> .. seealso:: There are many other configuration parameters for the Connect worker and |crep|, but we will show you only the significant ones. For an example with complete configurations, refer to the :devx-examples:`Connect worker backed to destination|ccloud/docs/config/backed-to-destination/docker-compose.yml` Docker configuration and the :devx-examples:`Replicator reading from an on-prem cluster|ccloud/docs/config/backed-to-destination/replicator-origin-onprem-backed-to-destination.cfg` configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. seealso:: There are many other configuration parameters for the |kconnect| worker and |crep|, but these examples show you only the significant ones. For an example with complete configurations, refer to the :devx-examples:`Connect worker backed to destination|ccloud/docs/config/backed-to-destination/docker-compose.yml` Docker configuration and the :devx-examples:`Replicator reading from an on-premises cluster|ccloud/docs/config/backed-to-destination/replicator-origin-onprem-backed-to-destination.cfg` configuration file.
```

.. figure:: images/onprem-ccloud-destination.png

Configure |kconnect-long|
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: includes/connect-worker-to-destination-ccloud.rst 

Configure |crep|
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: includes/replicator-from-origin-onprem.rst

.. include:: includes/replicator-to-destination-ccloud.rst

Configure ACLs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: includes/set-acls-destination.rst

.. _cloud-cloud-destination:

> |ccloud| to |ccloud| with Connect Backed to Destination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|ccloud| to |ccloud| with |kconnect| Backed to Destination
```

-------------------------------------------------------

> In this example, |crep| copies data from one |ccloud| cluster to another |ccloud| cluster, and |crep| runs on a Connect cluster backed to the destination |ccloud| cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, |crep| copies data from one |ccloud| cluster to another |ccloud| cluster, and |crep| runs on a |kconnect| cluster backed to the destination |ccloud| cluster.
```

.. seealso:: There are many other configuration parameters for the Connect worker and |crep|, but we will show you only the significant ones. For an example with complete configurations, refer to the :devx-examples:`Connect worker backed to destination|ccloud/docs/config/backed-to-destination/docker-compose.yml` Docker configuration and the :devx-examples:`Replicator reading from Confluent Cloud|ccloud/docs/config/backed-to-destination/replicator-origin-ccloud-backed-to-destination.cfg` configuration file.

.. figure:: images/ccloud-ccloud-destination.png

Configure |kconnect-long|
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: includes/connect-worker-to-destination-ccloud.rst

Configure |crep|
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: includes/replicator-from-origin-ccloud.rst

.. include:: includes/replicator-to-destination-ccloud.rst

Configure ACLs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: includes/set-acls-origin-and-destination.rst

.. _connect-backed-origin:

================================

> Connect Cluster Backed to Origin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|kconnect| Cluster Backed to Origin
```

================================

For this case where |crep| runs on a :ref:`connect-backed-origin`, there are two configuration examples:

- Example 2.1: :ref:`onprem-cloud-origin`
- Example 2.2: :ref:`cloud-cloud-origin`

.. _onprem-cloud-origin:

> On-prem to |ccloud| with Connect Backed to Origin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On-premises to |ccloud| with |kconnect| Backed to Origin
```

-------------------------------------------------

> In this example, |crep| copies data from an on-prem Kafka cluster to |ccloud|, and |crep| runs on a Connect cluster backed to the origin on-prem cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, |crep| copies data from an on-premises |ak| cluster to |ccloud|, and |crep| runs on a |kconnect| cluster backed to the origin on-premises cluster.
```

> .. seealso:: There are many other configuration parameters for the Connect worker and |crep|, but we will show you only the significant ones. For an example with complete configurations, refer to the :devx-examples:`Connect worker backed to origin|ccloud/docs/config/backed-to-origin/docker-compose.yml` Docker configuration and the :devx-examples:`Replicator reading from an on-prem cluster|ccloud/docs/config/backed-to-origin/replicator-origin-onprem-backed-to-origin.cfg` configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. seealso:: There are many other configuration parameters for the Connect worker and |crep|, but we will show you only the significant ones. For an example with complete configurations, refer to the :devx-examples:`Connect worker backed to origin|ccloud/docs/config/backed-to-origin/docker-compose.yml` Docker configuration and the :devx-examples:`Replicator reading from an on-premises cluster|ccloud/docs/config/backed-to-origin/replicator-origin-onprem-backed-to-origin.cfg` configuration file.
```

.. figure:: images/ccloud-ccloud-origin.png

Configure |kconnect-long|
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: includes/connect-worker-to-origin-ccloud.rst

.. include:: includes/connect-worker-override-policy.rst

Configure |crep|
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: includes/replicator-from-origin-ccloud.rst

.. include:: includes/replicator-to-destination-ccloud.rst

.. include:: includes/replicator-overrides.rst

Configure ACLs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: includes/set-acls-origin-and-destination.rst

==========================================================
Additional Resources
==========================================================

- For additional considerations on running |crep| to |ccloud|, refer to :ref:`cloud-migrate-topics`.

> - To run a |ccloud| demo that showcases a hybrid Kafka cluster: one cluster is a self-managed Kafka cluster running locally, the other is a |ccloud| cluster, see :ref:`quickstart-demos-ccloud`..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To run a |ccloud| demo that showcases a hybrid |ak| cluster: one cluster is a self-managed |ak| cluster running locally, the other is a |ccloud| cluster, see :ref:`quickstart-demos-ccloud`..
```
